In this lab, I simulated a basic security assessment scenario where an attacker attempts to gain access to a remote Linux system using discovered credentials. 
The exercise demonstrated how weak password practices can lead to unauthorized system access and how attackers may attempt to escalate privileges after gaining an initial foothold.
The target machine was accessed through SSH (Secure Shell) from a remote terminal environment.


OBJECTIVE:
The goal of the exercise was to:

Attempt login access using discovered credentials
Authenticate to a remote system using SSH
Navigate the Linux filesystem
Read files and inspect system information
Identify additional users and attempt further access


Commands Used
1. Remote Login via SSH

'ssh sammie@10.64.151.25'

1.)Used SSH (Secure Shell) to remotely connect to the target Linux machine.
2.)Login was successful using the discovered password dragon.
3.)During the first connection, SSH prompted confirmation of the server's authenticity.
Key concept:

SSH is commonly used for secure remote administration of Linux systems.

2. Identify Current User
'WHOAMI'
Purpose:

Confirms which user account is currently active in the terminal session.


3.List Files in the Current Directory
By using LS
4.Read File Contents
By using cat <file_name>
5.View Command History
runnign command 'history'




KEY SECURITY CONCEPTS LEARNED

-Weak password practices create serious security vulnerabilities.

-Attackers often use credential guessing to gain initial system access.

-SSH is a common entry point for remote system administration.

-Commands like history can leak sensitive operational data.

-After initial access, attackers may attempt privilege escalation to gain administrative rights.


SKILLS Practiced

-Linux command line navigation

-SSH remote login

-File discovery and inspection

-Basic credential attack methodology

-Understanding privilege escalation pathways


KEY TAKEAWAY

This lab demonstrated how simple mistakes like weak passwords and exposed credentials can allow attackers to gain unauthorized access to Linux systems. 
Proper password management, access control, and security awareness are critical for protecting infrastructure.












